---
layout: post
title:  "What to do?"
date:   2017-12-23 12:42:32 +0000
category: "Pete"
description: In which I ask you, what should I do next year?
---

I'm not really one for New Years Resolutions, but my big projects do seem to end around this time of year so my planning tends to co-incide with the traditional making of rash promises and setting of unrealistic goals. 

Right now I'm not too sure what my goals are. I know I've just come out of a three year process, starting when BOM opened in November 2014 and I took a Fellowship there and ending when Instructions for Humans finished at BOM last week. Whatever I do next will definitely be informed by those years, but it probably will take a quite different shape. 

I should say at this point that I'm not 100% sure what happened during Instructions for Humans. I don't trust my feelings about what worked and what was terrible. I know I need a whole chunk of hindsight to see beyond the exhaustion and euphoria. But there are some broad strokes ideas I know I want to persue next year. 

One of the best things about being in the gallery for Instructions for Humans was that I talked things through with people. Often they had something useful to add but even if they didn't, even if they just stood there graciously listening to this strange man ramble at them, the act of processing my thoughts socially was very effective. It's something I used to do a lot of but had drifted away from for various reasons, and it's something I want to get back to doing. 